---
title:  "AWS Chime: Real-time Audio-Video-Messaging Service"
#permalink: /_post/aws/chime/video-audio-conferencing
date:   2021-12-21 1:33:22 +0530
categories:
  - AWS
  - VoIP
toc: true
toc_label: "Contents"
toc_icon: "file-alt"
toc_sticky : true
tags:
  - AWS
  - VoIP
author: Akhilesh Moghe
show_author_profile: true
---

## AWS Chime
- Features 
  - Video & Audio Calling
  - Screen Share
  - AWS Signature Version 4 APIs with AWS SDK support available in C++, Go, Java, JavaScript, .NET, Node.js, PHP, Python, and Ruby languages.
  - Leverage AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) for access management to enable the right access to the APIs.
  - React user interface framework.
  - Mobile browser support with JavaScript SDKs.
  - high-quality audio and video on WebRTC-enabled browsers and mobile operating systems.
  - Connect up to 250 participants and build customized layouts by binding up to 25 simultaneous video streams to native user interface elements.
  - Use live transcriptions generated by __*Amazon Transcribe*__ or __*Amazon Transcribe Medical*__ to *<u>overlay subtitles</u>*, build a transcript, or perform real-time *<u>content analysis</u>*.
    - Individual audio streams of the top talkers are sent directly to your Amazon Transcribe account for real-time transcription.
    - The results are processed into user-attributed transcription information which is then sent to every meeting participant via __*Amazon Chime SDK data messages*__.
    - Transcription information can also be stored in your __*Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)*__ bucket with media capture for *<u>post-meeting processing</u>*.
  - ML based speech enhancement capabilities including noise reduction and acoustic echo reduction.
  - *<u>Video background blur</u>*:
    - Apply a low-strength blur to create a bokeh effect, or a high-strength blur to help increase visual privacy. Users can confirm their background blur prior to joining a meeting through video preview.
  - *<u>Client-side video inspection and manipulation</u>*:
    - Analyze and modify video in your application before being shared in the meeting.
    - Gives you read-write access to each video frame.
    - Add features such as auto-framing on the user, *<u>background blurring</u>* or *<u>replacement</u>*, *<u>count the number of users</u>*, apply a *<u>watermark</u>*, or embed a *<u>logo</u>*.
  - *<u>Video simulcast</u>*:
    - Applications can adapt to changing conditions.
    - With simulcast enabled, *<u>clients</u>* upload *<u>multiple video streams</u>* from the same video source using *<u>different resolutions</u>* and *<u>bitrates</u>*.
    - Clients displaying remote video tiles choose which stream to subscribe to based on downlink bandwidth, number of video streams shared in the meeting, and by *<u>prioritizing content share over webcam video streams</u>*.
  - *<u>Content sharing</u>*:
    - Share pre-recorded audio and video, or a screen or application window with remote participants using the Amazon Chime SDK for JavaScript.
    - All SDKs include *<u>embeddable screen viewing controls</u>* that provide the ability to *<u>zoom in and out</u>* or pan on the shared content.
    - Callbacks track who is sharing and when the source of the sharing changes.
  - *<u>Data messages</u>*:
    - Use data messages to send real-time signals between clients connected.
    - Messages can be any data payload in any format up to *<u>2KB in size</u>*.
    - Use data messages to indicate changes to *<u>meeting state</u>*, power custom-built collaborative features such as *<u>emoji</u>* reactions or shared *<u>whiteboards</u>*, or for other purposes appropriate to their application.
  - Track the active speakers through a periodic callback with a list of attendees sorted from most to least active.
  - Notification callbacks to provide volume levels of attendees, *<u>Mute and unmute microphone actions</u>* and notifications are available to indicate the *<u>mute status</u>* for each attendee.
  - *<u>Device Controller</u>* module to manage the available audio input, audio output, and video input. Control permissions, preview, and selection of the devices used during the media session.
  - Manage audio and video performance with both pre-built and customizable *<u>bandwidth policies</u>* controlling video bandwidth adaptation and video stream pausing.
  - Audio stream auto-reconnect feature provides more *<u>resilience to network interruptions</u>*.
  - Use the __*Amazon Simple Notification Service (SNS)*__ and __*Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS)*__ integration to receive meeting events.
  - Capture the contents of meeting and save them to an __*Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)*__ bucket.
  - Capture meeting audio, video, and content share streams in *<u>five second segments</u>* and directly deliver them to the designated Amazon S3 bucket.
  - In addition to media, *<u>meeting events</u>* and *<u>data messages</u>* are also delivered to your designated Amazon S3 bucket. When live transcription is active in the meeting, transcription data is also delivered to the S3 bucket for post meeting processing.
  - [Further Features](https://aws.amazon.com/chime/chime-sdk/features/)
  - [Amazon Chime SDK Pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/chime/chime-sdk/pricing/)

  

### AWS Chime SDK
- A set of real-time communications components used to add *<u>messaging</u>*, *<u>audio</u>*, *<u>video</u>*, and *<u>screen sharing</u>* capabilities to their web or mobile applications.
- Customized audio prompts for integration with the *<u>public telephone network(PSTN)</u>*.
- AWS SDK in your server application to create media sessions and manage attendees.
- Amazon Chime SDKs for *<u>iOS</u>*, *<u>Android</u>*, or *<u>Javascript</u>* in your client applications to start and join media sessions, manage local audio/video devices, perform in-meeting actions.
- Provides Secure, Real-time VoIP communications infrastructure.
- *<u>Pay a single rate per minute per user</u>*, regardless of audio calling, video calling, or screen sharing features delivered.
- Enable phone users to dial into media sessions by integrating with __*Amazon Chime Voice Connector*__.
- Stream audio with __*Amazon Kinesis Video Streams*__ for *<u>transcription</u>* using __*Amazon Transcribe*__ or *<u>sentiment analysis</u>* using __*Amazon Comprehend*__.
- Capture *<u>meeting events</u>* in real-time with __*Amazon EventBridge*__, __*Amazon Simple Queue Service*__ or __*Amazon Simple Notification Service*__ and trigger event-based workflows.

### Amazon Chime Voice Connector
- Enables you to connect your phone system to the telephone network at a substantial cost savings by using *<u>SIP trunking</u>*.
- SIP trunking with Amazon Chime Voice Connector provides phone numbers with inbound or outbound calling.
- Stream audio from you telephone systems to *<u>AWSML/AI services for automated voice analytics</u>* or *<u>mask phone numbers</u>* using proxy phone sessions.
- No upfront fees or commitments.
- No over-provisioning call path costs to scale for your busiest times.
- No upfront costs, such as trunk set-up fees, directory charges, and number porting charges.
- No charges for features like encryption.
- Only pay for the calling minutes, audio streaming minutes, Direct-Inward-Dial (DID), or toll-free phone numbers you use.
- Use __*AWS Direct Connect*__ or other *<u>internet connection</u>* for network access.
- No expensive Multi-Protocol Label Switching (MPLS) circuits required.
- Stream phone call audio from your telephone systems in real-time with __*Amazon Kinesis*__. This audio stream can be sent to AWS AI services to build recording, compliance monitoring, and analytics solutions.


### Use-cases
- Telemedicine: Connect medical professionals and patients over messaging and video for remote consultations.
- Remote Learning: high-quality audio, video, and screen share in your e-learning applications.
- Unified Communication: Deliver high-quality messaging, audio and video, screen share capabilities
- Gaming: high-quality multi-player audio and video interactions into gaming apps. Enabling geographically separated players to coordinate plays and strategies together in real-time.

###### References:
  - [Amazon Chime](https://aws.amazon.com/chime/)
  - [Amazon Chime SDK](https://aws.amazon.com/chime/chime-sdk/)
  - [Amazon Chime Voice Connector](https://aws.amazon.com/chime/voice-connector/)
  
  
  
